README.md, before:

# GraphicalDebugging extension for Visual Studio 2015 and 2017

This extension allows to display graphical representation of variables during debugging.

![Themes](images/themes.png)

Currently it supports Boost.Geometry and Boost.Polygon models, Boost.Variant and STL/Boost containers of values. It contains:

* Debugging visualizers for Boost.Array, Boost.Container, Boost.Geometry, Boost.MPL, Boost.Polygon, Boost.Tuple and Boost.Variant
* Geometry Watch tool window displaying geometries in a common coordinate system, e.g. Boost.Geometry or Boost.Polygon polygons
* Graphical Watch tool window displaying graphical representation of variables, e.g. Boost.Geometry models or vectors of values
* Plot Watch tool window displaying plot representation of variables, e.g. vector of doubles

Feel free to report bugs, propose features and create pull requests. Any help is appreciated.

##### Download

You can download this extension from [Visual Studio Gallery](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/4b81868b-8901-408f-a28e-25a6580788fb).

##### Contact

You may contact me at [Boost.Geometry mailing list](http://lists.boost.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/geometry).

##### Instructions

###### Build

You need Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 Update 3, .NET Framework 4.5.2 and Visual Studio 2015 SDK.

###### Install

To install after building double-click the *.vsix file from bin/Debug or bin/Relase directory.

This extension works with Visual Studio 2015 and 2017.

###### Use

1. place a breakpoint somewhere in the code
2. start debugging
3. after a breakpoint hit enable the tool window from the menu
   * **View**->**Other Windows**->**Geometry Watch**
   * **View**->**Other Windows**->**Graphical Watch**
   * **View**->**Other Windows**->**Plot Watch**
4. write the name of a variable in an edit box on the list

#### Details

##### Debugging vizualizers

Supported:

* Boost.Array: array
* Boost.Container: vector, static_vector
* Boost.Geometry:
  * de9im: mask, matrix, static_mask
  * detail: turn_info, traversal_turn_info, turn_operation, turn_operation_linear, traversal_turn_operation, segment_ratio
  * index: rtree, varray
  * model: point, point_xy, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
* Boost.MPL: int_, size_t, integral_c, vector, vector_c
* Boost.Polygon: point_data, interval_data, segment_data, rectangle_data, polygon_data, polygon_with_holes_data
* Boost.Tuple: tuple, cons
* Boost.Variant: variant

![Watch](images/natvis_watch.png)

##### Geometry Watch

Watch window displaying graphical representation of variables in a single image. This allows to compare the variables easily.

Supported:

* 2D cartesian geometries
  * Boost.Geometry: point, point_xy, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
  * Boost.Polygon: point_data, segment_data, rectangle_data, polygon_data, polygon_with_holes_data
* Non-cartesian geometries (spherical_equatorial and geographic)
  * Boost.Geometry: point, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
* Variants of geometries
  * Boost.Variant

![Geometry Watch](images/geometry_watch.png)

Geometries in spherical_equatorial and geographic coordinate systems are displayed in a way allowing to see what coordinates were used to define a geometry. Note that various libraries may require coordinates in a certain range. This extension tries to display any coordinates as good as possible.

![Geometry Watch Spherical](images/geometry_watch_sph.png)

where

    polygon_sd_t poly_sd{{{-100, 0},{100, 0},{100, 50},{-100, 50},{-100, 0}},
                         {{-150, 10},{-150, 20},{150, 20},{150, 10},{-150, 10}}};
    multi_polygon_sd_t mpoly_sd{{{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30},{-150, 60}},
                                 {{0, 10},{-15, 20},{-50, 50},{0, 60}}}};
    multi_point_sd_t mpt_sd{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30}};

##### Graphical Watch

Watch window displaying graphical representations of variables in a list. Each variable is placed and visualized in a separate row.

Supported:

* Containers of elements convertible to double
  * STL: array, vector, deque, list
  * Boost.Array: array
  * Boost.Container: vector, static_vector
* 2D cartesian geometries
  * Boost.Geometry: point, point_xy, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
  * Boost.Polygon: point_data, segment_data, rectangle_data, polygon_data, polygon_with_holes_data
* Non-cartesian geometries (spherical_equatorial and geographic)
  * Boost.Geometry: point, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
* Variants of geometries
  * Boost.Variant

![Graphical Watch](images/graphical_watch.png)

Geometries in spherical_equatorial and geographic coordinate systems are displayed in a convenient, compact way.

![Graphical Watch Spherical](images/graphical_watch_sph.png)

where

    polygon_sd_t poly_sd{{{-100, 0},{100, 0},{100, 50},{-100, 50},{-100, 0}},
                         {{-150, 10},{-150, 20},{150, 20},{150, 10},{-150, 10}}};
    multi_polygon_sd_t mpoly_sd{{{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30},{-150, 60}},
                                 {{0, 10},{-15, 20},{-50, 50},{0, 60}}}};
    multi_point_sd_t mpt_sd{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30}};

##### Plot Watch

Watch window displaying plot representation of variables in a single image.

Supported containers of values convertible to double:
  * STL: array, vector, deque, list
  * Boost.Array: array
  * Boost.Container: vector, static_vector

![Plot Watch](images/plot_watch.png)
	
##### Zooming/cropping

Geometry Watch and Plot Watch has zooming/cropping feature.

![Geometry Watch Zoom](images/geometry_watch_zoom.png)

![Geometry Watch Zoomed](images/geometry_watch_zoomed.png)
	
##### Themes

The extension supports Visual Studio themes. The visualization of variables may be drawn in two versions, dark or light depending on the brightness of the theme background color.

Commit message:

Update readme - additional plot types.

README.md, after:

# GraphicalDebugging extension for Visual Studio 2015 and 2017

This extension allows to display graphical representation of variables during debugging.

![Themes](images/themes.png)

Currently it supports Boost.Geometry and Boost.Polygon models, Boost.Variant and STL/Boost containers of values. It contains:

* Debugging visualizers for Boost.Array, Boost.Container, Boost.Geometry, Boost.MPL, Boost.Polygon, Boost.Tuple and Boost.Variant
* Geometry Watch tool window displaying geometries in a common coordinate system, e.g. Boost.Geometry or Boost.Polygon polygons
* Graphical Watch tool window displaying graphical representation of variables, e.g. Boost.Geometry models or vectors of values
* Plot Watch tool window displaying plot representation of variables, e.g. vector of doubles

Feel free to report bugs, propose features and create pull requests. Any help is appreciated.

##### Download

You can download this extension from [Visual Studio Gallery](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/4b81868b-8901-408f-a28e-25a6580788fb).

##### Contact

You may contact me at [Boost.Geometry mailing list](http://lists.boost.org/mailman/listinfo.cgi/geometry).

##### Instructions

###### Build

You need Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 Update 3, .NET Framework 4.5.2 and Visual Studio 2015 SDK.

###### Install

To install after building double-click the *.vsix file from bin/Debug or bin/Relase directory.

This extension works with Visual Studio 2015 and 2017.

###### Use

1. place a breakpoint somewhere in the code
2. start debugging
3. after a breakpoint hit enable the tool window from the menu
   * **View**->**Other Windows**->**Geometry Watch**
   * **View**->**Other Windows**->**Graphical Watch**
   * **View**->**Other Windows**->**Plot Watch**
4. write the name of a variable in an edit box on the list

#### Details

##### Debugging vizualizers

Supported:

* Boost.Array: array
* Boost.Container: vector, static_vector
* Boost.Geometry:
  * de9im: mask, matrix, static_mask
  * detail: turn_info, traversal_turn_info, turn_operation, turn_operation_linear, traversal_turn_operation, segment_ratio
  * index: rtree, varray
  * model: point, point_xy, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
* Boost.MPL: int_, size_t, integral_c, vector, vector_c
* Boost.Polygon: point_data, interval_data, segment_data, rectangle_data, polygon_data, polygon_with_holes_data
* Boost.Tuple: tuple, cons
* Boost.Variant: variant

![Watch](images/natvis_watch.png)

##### Geometry Watch

Watch window displaying graphical representation of variables in a single image. This allows to compare the variables easily.

Supported:

* 2D cartesian geometries
  * Boost.Geometry: point, point_xy, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
  * Boost.Polygon: point_data, segment_data, rectangle_data, polygon_data, polygon_with_holes_data
* Non-cartesian geometries (spherical_equatorial and geographic)
  * Boost.Geometry: point, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
* Variants of geometries
  * Boost.Variant

![Geometry Watch](images/geometry_watch.png)

Geometries in spherical_equatorial and geographic coordinate systems are displayed in a way allowing to see what coordinates were used to define a geometry. Note that various libraries may require coordinates in a certain range. This extension tries to display any coordinates as good as possible.

![Geometry Watch Spherical](images/geometry_watch_sph.png)

where

    polygon_sd_t poly_sd{{{-100, 0},{100, 0},{100, 50},{-100, 50},{-100, 0}},
                         {{-150, 10},{-150, 20},{150, 20},{150, 10},{-150, 10}}};
    multi_polygon_sd_t mpoly_sd{{{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30},{-150, 60}},
                                 {{0, 10},{-15, 20},{-50, 50},{0, 60}}}};
    multi_point_sd_t mpt_sd{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30}};

##### Graphical Watch

Watch window displaying graphical representations of variables in a list. Each variable is placed and visualized in a separate row.

Supported:

* Containers of elements convertible to double
  * STL: array, vector, deque, list
  * Boost.Array: array
  * Boost.Container: vector, static_vector
* 2D cartesian geometries
  * Boost.Geometry: point, point_xy, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
  * Boost.Polygon: point_data, segment_data, rectangle_data, polygon_data, polygon_with_holes_data
* Non-cartesian geometries (spherical_equatorial and geographic)
  * Boost.Geometry: point, box, segment, referring_segment, polygon, multi_point, multi_linestring, multi_polygon, nsphere
* Variants of geometries
  * Boost.Variant

![Graphical Watch](images/graphical_watch.png)

Geometries in spherical_equatorial and geographic coordinate systems are displayed in a convenient, compact way.

![Graphical Watch Spherical](images/graphical_watch_sph.png)

where

    polygon_sd_t poly_sd{{{-100, 0},{100, 0},{100, 50},{-100, 50},{-100, 0}},
                         {{-150, 10},{-150, 20},{150, 20},{150, 10},{-150, 10}}};
    multi_polygon_sd_t mpoly_sd{{{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30},{-150, 60}},
                                 {{0, 10},{-15, 20},{-50, 50},{0, 60}}}};
    multi_point_sd_t mpt_sd{{0, 0},{90, 10},{170, 20},{-170, 30}};

##### Plot Watch

Watch window displaying plot representation of variables in a single image.

Supported containers of values convertible to double:
  * STL: array, vector, deque, list
  * Boost.Array: array
  * Boost.Container: vector, static_vector

![Plot Watch](images/plot_watch.png)

To change the type of plot go to Tools->Options...->Graphical Debugging->Plot Watch

![Plot Watch Line Point](images/plot_watch_line_point.png)
	
##### Zooming/cropping

Geometry Watch and Plot Watch has zooming/cropping feature.

![Geometry Watch Zoom](images/geometry_watch_zoom.png)

![Geometry Watch Zoomed](images/geometry_watch_zoomed.png)
	
##### Themes

The extension supports Visual Studio themes. The visualization of variables may be drawn in two versions, dark or light depending on the brightness of the theme background color.
